From March 20-23, 2018, the Solar Dynamics Observatory captured a series of images of our Sun and then ran together three sequences in three different extreme ultraviolet wavelengths.
Attendees talk with NASA staff at exhibit booths during Sneak Peek Friday at the USA Science and Engineering Festival, Friday, April 6, 2018. At the festival, NASA showcased the future of human space exploration – including the Orion spacecraft and the Space Launch System rocket.
These graceful arcs are a cosmic phenomenon known as an Einstein ring - created as the light from distant galaxies warps around an extremely large mass, like a galaxy cluster.
Gullies on Martian sand dunes, like these in Matara Crater, have been very active, with many flows in the last ten years.
We honor the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who delivered the famous "I've been to the mountaintop" speech in Memphis, Tennessee fifty years ago, the day before he was assassinated on April 4, 1968. This image taken from the International Space Station shows a detailed view of the city of Memphis from low-Earth orbit.
Aeronautical innovations are part of a government-industry partnership to collect data that could make supersonic flight over land possible, dramatically reducing travel time in the United States.
NASA astronaut Drew Feustel seemingly hangs off the International Space Station while conducting a spacewalk on March 29, 2018.
Before there were computers and software that could stitch together digital images, they were printed on photo paper, trimmed by hand, and taped in place on a large black board.
Inside the Astrotech processing facility at Vandenberg Air Force Base, NASA's Interior Exploration using Seismic Investigations, Geodesy and Heat Transport, or InSight, Mars lander is tested ahead of its scheduled launch on May 5, 2018.
TESS, the Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite, is the next step in the search for planets outside of our solar system, including those that could support life.
This mosaic, taken by the Mars Curiosity rover, looks uphill at Mount Sharp.
Claudia Alexander, the project scientist overseeing NASA's support role in the European Space Agency's Rosetta mission, stands on the view deck of mission control at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
An underlying population of infant stars embedded in the nebula NGC 346 are still forming from gravitationally collapsing gas clouds.
The Soyuz MS-08 rocket launched Wednesday, March 21, 2018, bringing three new crewmembers to the International Space Station.
The Soyuz MS-08 rocket is launched with Soyuz Commander Oleg Artemyev of Roscosmos and astronauts Ricky Arnold and Drew Feustel of NASA, March 21, 2018, to join the crew of the Space Station.
Workers are seen on the launch pad as the Soyuz rocket arrives after being rolled out by train, Monday, March 19, 2018 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan.
In late Jan. 2018, NASA’s Global-scale Observations of the Limb and Disk (GOLD) instrument was launched into space aboard a commercial satellite.
This image captures a close-up view of a storm with bright cloud tops in the northern hemisphere of Jupiter.
What's in a name? If your name is Strong Thermal Emission Velocity Enhancement aka STEVE, then there's quite bit behind the name.
Just by determining how circular a given crater is – using pi and the crater’s perimeter and area – planetary geologists can reveal clues about how the crater was formed and the surface that was impacted.
Not everyone gets to become a part of history, but mathematician Billie Robertson is one of the lucky ones. In this image taken on Nov. 27, 1972, she was running a real-time simulation of Translunar Injection (TLI) Go-No-Go for the Apollo 17 lunar landing mission.
Cassini captured this striking view of Saturn’s moon Dione on July 23, 2012.
The crew aboard the International Space Station have grown two batches of mixed greens (mizuna, red romaine lettuce and tokyo bekana cabbage), and are now running two Veggie facilities simultaneously.
Known as the 'Mother of Hubble,' Nancy Grace Roman is shown here at the Yerkes Observatory, University of Chicago in 1948, where she was studying for her doctorate in astronomy.
The intertank is the second piece of structural hardware for the massive Space Launch System core stage, built at NASA's Michoud Assembly Facility in New Orleans and delivered to Marshall Space Flight Center for testing.
This image was originally meant to track the movement of sand dunes near the North Pole of Mars, but what's on the ground in between the dunes is just as interesting!
Astronauts Joan Higginbotham (foreground) and Suni Williams refer to a procedures checklist as they work the controls of the Canadarm2, in this 2006 image.
This image captures the swirling cloud formations around the south pole of Jupiter, looking up toward the equatorial region.
A ULA Atlas V rocket lifts off from Space Launch Complex 41 at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station carrying the NOAA Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite, or GOES-S. Launch was at 5:02 p.m. EST, March 1, 2018. GOES-S is the second satellite in a series of next-generation weather satellites.
The Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (GOES-S) satellite sits on the launch pad at Space Launch Complex 41, Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, backdropped by the setting Sun. GOES-S is slated to lift off on March 1 at 5:02 p.m. EST.
The Soyuz MS-06 spacecraft is seen as it lands with Expedition 54 crew members Joe Acaba and Mark Vande Hei of NASA and cosmonaut Alexander Misurkin near the town of Zhezkazgan, Kazakhstan on Wednesday, Feb. 28, 2018 (February 27 Eastern time).
The six-member Expedition 54 crew poses for a lighthearted crew portrait inside the Japanese Kibo laboratory module on Feb. 18, 2018. Three of the crew members are packed up and prepared to return to Earth today, Tuesday, Feb. 27.
Though sea ice has been significantly below normal extent and thickness across much of the Arctic, the ice in the Labrador Sea has been relatively close to normal.
This series of images captures cloud patterns near Jupiter's south pole, looking up towards the planet’s equator.
On June 30, 1967, the U.S. Air Force selcted Maj. Robert H. Lawrence, Jr. for the Manned Orbiting Laboratory, Authorized in August 1965, a program which envisioned a series of mini-space stations in low polar Earth orbit.
A technician works on the European Service Module that will propel the Orion spacecraft in space and provide air, water and electricity for future crews.
On Feb. 20, 1962, John Glenn made history by becoming the first U.S. astronaut to orbit the place we call home--planet Earth.
See swirling cloud formations in the northern area of Jupiter's north temperate belt in this new view taken by NASA’s Juno spacecraft.
In June 1975, Marshall management named Clyde Foster to the position of director of the Equal Opportunity Office where he directed and administered a comprehensive program to assure equal opportunity in the conduct of all operations undertaken by the Center and its contractors.
Operation IceBridge, NASA’s longest running survey of the state of polar ice, shattered records in 2017.
In this image from 2009, NASA astronaut Stephanie Wilson is attired in a training version of her shuttle launch and entry suit.
Acting NASA Administrator Robert Lightfoot discusses the fiscal year 2019 budget proposal during a State of NASA address Monday, Feb. 12, 2018.
Since the Winter Olympics were first held in 1924, they only have been hosted twice in Asia, both times in Japan. This year the games will find a new home in South Korea, in the northeastern cities of Pyeongchang and Gangneung, visible in this natural-color image acquired on Jan. 26, 2018.
This image from NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter (MRO) shows streaks forming on slopes when dust cascades downhill.
The European Space Agency's Columbus module celebrates 10 years of science on the International Space Station.
NASA astronaut Robert Curbeam works on the International Space Station's S1 truss during the space shuttle Discovery's STS-116 mission in Dec. 2006.
Lunar crater is named after former NASA chief exploration scientist.
Taken from inside Chamber A at the Johnson Space Center in September 2017, this image shows the James Webb Space Telescope as it was undergoing cryogenic testing and the temperature was approximately -369.7 degrees Fahrenheit.
Dr. Lonnie Reid had a long and storied career at NASA's Glenn Research Center. His expertise in the internal flow of advance aerospace propulsion systems was nationally recognized and he was influential in recruiting and mentoring the next generation of scientists and engineers.
The International Space Station, with a crew of six onboard, is seen in silhouette as it transits the moon at roughly five miles per second on Tuesday, Jan. 30, 2018.
Astronaut Mark Vande Hei took this image of the eastern U.S. and Canada at night, writing, "Good night from @Space_Station. DC, NY, Toronto, Cleveland, and surrounding areas!"
Layers, probably sedimentary in origin, have undergone extensive erosion in this image from NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter (MRO) of Shalbatana Valles, a prominent channel that cuts through Xanthe Terra.
On Tuesday, Jan. 23, 2018, spacewalker Mark Vande Hei snapped his own portrait, better known as a “space-selfie,” during the first spacewalk of the year.
On the last Thursday in January, NASA pays tribute to the crews of Apollo 1 and space shuttles Challenger and Columbia, as well as other NASA colleagues who lost their lives while furthering the cause of exploration and discovery.
This image shows NASA's InSight lander after it was commanded to deploy its solar arrays to test and verify the exact process that it will use on the surface of the Red Planet.
Ships churning through the Atlantic Ocean produced this patchwork of bright, criss-crossing cloud trails off the coast of Portugal and Spain.
At NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, the Parker Solar Probe is lowered into the 40-foot-tall thermal vacuum chamber. The thermal vacuum chamber simulates the harsh conditions that the spacecraft will experience on its journey through space, including near-vacuum conditions and severe hot and cold temperatures.
This image of Jupiter’s swirling south polar region was captured by NASA’s Juno spacecraft as it neared completion of its tenth close flyby of the gas giant planet.
For the second time in three years, snow has accumulated in the desert near the northern Algerian town of Aïn Séfra.
On January 16, 1978, NASA announces the first astronaut class in nine years, which included the first African Americans.
----------
The US Senate questioned Mark Zuckerberg yesterday about Cambridge Analytica. He said Facebook will investigate thousands of other apps for similar misuse
Bad news for life near Proxima Centauri – the star has been seen emitting explosive blasts of radiation that would destroy the ozone on its Earth-like planet
Memories have unique genetic signatures that reveal what they are. The finding could lead to ways to read and alter memories in people with PTSD or phobias
We see best at dawn and dusk, and this could be because our brain activity changes at these times, making it easier to distinguish signals from background noise
A German study casts doubt on the story that automation will destroy jobs. Could it be true elsewhere?
The prime minister, Theresa May, is to pledge £75 million for clinical trials researching prostate cancer, which affects around one in eight men in the UK
A bad night’s sleep may lead to a protein linked to Alzheimer’s building up in the brain, but whether this raises the risk of the condition is unclear
A 10 per cent rise in snowfall in Antarctica is adding more ice to the continent each year, but the ice sheets are still shrinking because it's being lost faster too
A single bone found in the Saudi Arabian desert is at least 85,000 years old, and may shed light on the route early humans took out of Africa
Contracting infections like flu during pregnancy seems to lead to changes in a child’s brain that affects their cognitive abilities
When Mark Zuckerberg faces US politicians this week, he should admit his network is a global behavioural experiment that needs oversight to match, says Mark Harris
A newly discovered network of fluid-filled channels in the human body may be a previously-unknown organ, and it seems to help move cancer cells around the body
An over-the-phone abortion service to end unwanted pregnancies in their early stages – operating in Australia - has been found to be safe and effective
Routine screening for prostate cancer seems like a good thing, but for every life saved many more are blighted by unnecessary treatments
Understanding Arctic ponds can help us predict how fast the ice is melting. Their formation is governed by the simple maths of drawing overlapping circles
German yellowjacket wasps alert each other to food by drumming their abdomens against the nest wall, in a wasp equivalent of the famous honeybee “waggle dance”
A robotic bee talks to bees in their own language, but not all of them seem to pay attention
A mind-reading device can answer questions in your head. It works by picking up signals sent from your brain when you think about saying something
The competition for a private firm to put a rover on the moon was cancelled in January when no firm seemed close enough. It’s back now, but without a cash prize
The discovery that healthy, older adults produce just as many new neurons as young people could provide clues to how to keep our brains sharper for longer
Astronauts on long missions won't be able to bring all their tools with them. A new way of turning faeces into 3D-printable plastic may solve that problem
Spending on renewables in developed countries has halved since 2011, with investment levels in Europe falling back below the 2006 level
A South Korean university has dismissed fears it would work on killer robots. The dispute reflects growing worries over autonomous weapons, says Paul Marks
Squadbox lets people team up with their friends to fight back against trolls, so that together they can filter out abusive messages online
Four Quindío wax palms in Colombia have changed sex from male to female, which was thought to be impossible for such plants
Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg has said that Cambridge Analytica may have accessed data from 87 million accounts, 37 million more than previously thought
NASA awarded a $247.5 million contract to Lockheed Martin to design and build an aeroplane that breaks the sound barrier without shattering the peace and quiet
Just after the big bang, waves of neutrinos and other matter raced across the cosmos. Those neutrinos reached forward in time to dictate where galaxies form now
The Teslasuit is fitted with components that produce electric shocks that make your muscles twitch and is designed to help you immerse yourself more deeply in virtual reality video games
A patch of cells implanted at the back of the eye has stabilised and in some cases improved the vision of four people with dry age-related macular degeneration
If you’re not paying, you’re the product, so the saying goes. It's time to re-evaluate our pact with the tech giants that has driven the market in our data
We knew that the centre of the Milky Way was home to a supermassive black hole. But now we’ve also spotted evidence of 10,000 smaller black holes flanking it
A congestion charge in Stockholm not only cut levels of air pollution, it halved the number of children admitted to hospital with asthma attacks
Mini brains with a blood supply have been made in the lab for the first time. They may lead to a better understanding of the brain, and new injury treatments
New OECD report says that the risk of jobs being handed over to artificial intelligence is a lot lower than previously forecast
Some modern Yoruba people in West Africa carry DNA that suggests an ancient species of hominin lingered longer than we thought
Bowhead whales are such talented singers they can make two sounds simultaneously, and they invent new songs every year
England is to get specialist cancer diagnosis centres, which aim to more quickly diagnose people who have non-specific symptoms like weight loss and fatigue
We waste $22 billion in gold from electronics that are tossed out instead of recycled. A new technique uses ultrasound to harvest that precious metal from SIM cards
Governments are dithering over whether to limit climate change to 1.5°C or 2°C, but it seems the stricter target would avoid food shortages and major economic losses
Environmentalist Mark Lynas, who once destroyed GM crops and then made headlines by ending his opposition, is stepping up his call for reason to triumph
Fish and seafood are normally fairly environmentally friendly, but it takes so much fuel to catch some species that their carbon footprint is as big as that of red meat
Eighteen years on from the first human genome sequence, we are finally getting a glimpse of what genetically tailored medicine might look like
Research shows it’s not actually inequality we care about – it’s unfairness. But that fact shouldn’t be interpreted as supporting the status quo
Estonia is to become the first nation to give state-sponsored genetic advice on health and disease risks, and plans to extend the scheme to all its residents
After two years of spiralling closer and closer to Earth, the Chinese space station Tiangong-1 has come crashing through the atmosphere over the Pacific Ocean
A virtual reality simulator for training junior surgeons seems to make them better equipped to cut open real patients
Fog catchers can provide water for drinking or farming in rain-starved regions. A new material traps water with sticky lubricant to gather bigger drops faster
Thanks to a spot of genetic hacking, silkworms can make a new form of silk not found in nature that includes a synthetic amino acid. It could be used in medicine
A few amphibian species in Panama are recovering from near-extinction, after apparently evolving resistance to the deadly chytrid fungus
We may be watching a supermassive black hole rip a star limb from limb. As it swallows bits of the star, it will release enough energy to stay bright for months
Dogs can recognise different human facial expressions, like happy or sad, and now a simple brain scan can reveal which expression a dog is looking at
When monkeys interact, neurons in their brains show the same activity patterns. We may be able to harness this synchronisation to learn to work together better
Artificial intelligence has created a list of suggested April Fool’s pranks. Some seem cunning, others are completely nonsensical
A new bioethics briefing highlights restrictions on genomic screening of newborn children. Should it be tightly controlled, wonders Alex Pearlman
Republicans and Democrats had their social media bubbles popped. Rather than opening them up to new ideas, it strengthened what they already believed
The UK must answer difficult questions on climate change, food security, aviation and more as it leaves the EU on 29 March 2019
Some of the bacteria that live in our bodies seem to kick-start the autoimmune disorder lupus. In the future, targeted antibiotics might help treat the condition
Comparing moon rocks to volcanic ones from the ocean floor shows that Earth’s water may have stuck around even through the giant impact that formed the moon
A Jupiter-like planet has been found orbiting a star just 12 light years from Earth, making it the closest confirmed gas giant found outside our solar system
Most galaxies have more mysterious dark matter than bright stars and gas. But this galaxy has no dark matter, killing off some alternate ideas of gravity
The UK government’s plan to introduce a refundable deposit on plastic bottles is a good start, but producers must pay the entire cost of dealing with waste
Doctors at Great Ormond Street Hospital have used rapid genome sequencing to diagnose disorders in children in intensive care, and give them better treatments
Birds find it difficult to fix their gaze on an object, because their eyes don’t face forwards, but one species has found an ingenious solution
The surface of Sputnik Planitia, part of a heart-shaped plain on Pluto, has no craters at all. They may have been filled in by soft, flowing nitrogen ice
Crimes carried out online are already illegal, so politicians should stop calling for new laws and start enforcing the old ones
A virtual reality game monitors your heart rate. If you’re not finding it scary enough, the game automatically intensifies the horror
The James Webb Space Telescope, which will hunt for signs of life on other worlds, was supposed to launch next year. It has now been delayed to May 2020
Even some of the more remote parts of the Amazon rainforest, far from major rivers, were once densely populated – centuries before the arrival of Europeans
We have the international tools to resolve uncertainties over the poisoning of Sergei and Yulia Skripal – but they will only work if Russia cooperates
An analysis of YouTube videos and Pinterest pins has found that around 90 per cent of affiliate marketing links are not disclosed, in contravention of advertising rules
Plans to improve cancer survival in England and reduce rich-poor inequities are having little impact. This must be addressed, says Aimilia Exarchakou
Without more of the dream-dense morning sleep that is so important for our brains and health, we risk sleepwalking our way to problems
An exoplanet discovered 340 million light years away may shed some light on how Mercury got to be such a weird world – a tiny planet made mostly of an iron core
A supernova exploded and hit maximum brightness over 2.2 days – the fastest one we’ve spotted. A shell of gas from its dying star may have amped up its light
The death of Stephen Hawking has not just deprived the world of a great scientist, it has deprived science of an effective ambassador to the non-scientific world
Our extinct cousins the Neanderthals seem to have targeted cave bears, which were normally intimidating foes, while they were sleepy and weak from hibernating through the winter
On missions to Mars and beyond, astronauts will have to grow their own food. Urine has been shown in space simulations to keep wheat and soy alive over 20 years
Scientists have engineered 9 human cells to work as a simple, programmable computer. It could lead to implants that automatically detect and treat disease
A US woman has been treated with an experimental skin spray after losing a third of her skin to flesh-eating bacteria
An assessment of Earth’s biodiversity predicts catastrophic losses within decades, with severe knock-on effects for human civilisation like shortages of food
Facebook is made to keep you coming back for another fix, which spells trouble for the #DeleteFacebook movement, says Lara Williams
Small drones that can automatically spot, identify and target vehicles and people are planned by the US military, although humans would still be overseeing them
The CRISPR immune system from bacteria has been engineered into silkworms, allowing them to fight off a virus that plagues the silk industry
Abortions on the basis of disability are back in the spotlight thanks to a new test for Down's syndrome during pregnancy and law changes around the world
How well your kids do at school depends in part on the DNA you bequeathed them. What’s not clear is what we should do about this
Giant devil rays have been filmed courting for the first time, and it turns out the males do not even wait for the females to give birth
Rinsing fabrics with lots of fresh water after soaping them up creates a small electric field that pulls dirt particles lodged deep between fabric fibres
Cutting the calories you eat by 15 per cent may make you live longer – and it could be because it makes your body shut down more deeply during sleep
Thinning on top? An epilepsy drug that might be painlessly injected into the scalp could treat premature hair loss in men.
Great tits exposed to toxic metals like cadmium and lead alter their behaviour, becoming less exploratory and more cautious, suggesting their personalities have been reshaped
Use of social media data is important to research in many fields but the fallout over the Cambridge Analytica claims may hamper that, says Annabel Latham
There's at least four times as much plastic floating in the Pacific as we thought, and a lot of it may have floated over from Japan after the 2011 Tohoku tsunami
The finalists for the XPrize Water Abundance competition have been announced, where the challenge is to suck two tonnes of water out of the air a day
The most precise calculation of the lifetime of our universe finds that a bubble of vacuum energy made by the Higgs boson could envelop us all in 10139 years
The Humanity Star, an orbiting geodesic sphere that reflects sunlight, was expected to circle earth until September but it came down early
Underwater robots usually disrupt wildlife with their propellers, but a new mechanical fish gracefully swims through the water like a real one
With a small adaption, a simple smear test for cervical cancer can also detect ovarian and endometrial cancers at the same time
A gel tested in mice prevented lingering cancer cells from growing or spreading around the body after surgeons remove tumours
For the first time, a portable MEG scanner can image brain activity while people move and behave normally. It could be useful for studying babies and infants
